Now, I'm going to talk
a little bit about
some of the commands that are
used in Linux to navigate
the file system,
to move through the file system.
So, like I said,
every shell has it's
own local directory
that it defaults to.
You can move around the
directories and go up and
down through the directory tree
and find the files
that you want to find.
So, we'll go to this command cd.
Cd stands for change
directory and that's what you
use to change your
local directory
from one directory to another.
So, you can see the first line
of this list of commands here,
I'm typing in pwd, that
shows me what directory
I'm currently in.
So, /home,/pi, that's
my current directory.
Then, if I'd say cd /bin,
that puts me into
the /bin directory.
So, then if I say pwd,
you can see it prints out /bin
because cd did just
what it supposed to do,
it changed my directory to
exactly what I typed, cd /bin.
Now, right after that I type
just cd with
no argument, just cd.
What that does is,
it brings you to the
default directory,
the home directory
for your account.
So, what happens is, in
every shell you're running
it in some account,
some running in the
Pi account, right?
Because the Pi account is sort of
the default user account
in a raspberry Pi.
So, every account has
it's local directory,
it's own home directory.
In raspberry Pi, it's
in /home/pi, right?
That's so typical,
you'll say /home,
so say I made a new directory,
/home/harris, right?
I made a new account
called Harris,
it would make a directory
called /home/harris
and then when I'm
logged in as Harris,
it would put me by default
into that /home/harris.
So, when you type cd
with no argument,
it just brings you
back to whatever
the default directory is for
the account that
you're logged in as
which in this case is /home/pi.
So, you can say pwd,
I see it's /home/pi.
But in this case, I'm using cd to
bring me to a
particular directory.
So, the argument to cd,
if I give it an argument is
the entire path, basically,
the whole directory name
all the way from the top.
When I say the top I mean
from that slash directory.
So, say I want to go to /home/pi,
I have to specify
the whole thing,
cd/home/pi or
cd/home/indiegames or
whatever the directory is.
So, you specify
the whole path from the top.
Now, another way to use cd,
so this is for
change in directory.
Another way to use cd is to,
instead of specifying
the whole path,
the whole directory that you
want to go to from the top,
you can just move yourself
relative to the current
local directory.
So, the typical way you
move is you either move
up one directory in
the tree or down one.
So, if you remember,
this whole file system
is one big tree, right?
It doesn't have to be a tree,
but think of it as a tree.
So, you can move up
one or down one.
So, pwd, I see I'm in /home/pi,
if I say cd.., that
moves me up one level.
So, now if I do pwd,
I see I'm in /home,
I moved up one from Pi.
Then I can go down a level.
So, I can type cd Pi
and it'll move into
the pi directory.
Now notice, when I specify Pi,
I didn't specify the whole path,
I didn't say /home/pi,
I just said Pi.
Now, when I do that,
it looks for Pi,
the Pi directory in
the local directory.
That's what the point of
the local directory is,
is if you don't specify
the entire path
which I didn't here,
I just said Pi, right?
If you don't specify
the entire path,
it will look in
the local directory for
whatever it is
you're referring to,
in this case, Pi and it
finds it there, right?
Because under /home
there is a Pi directory,
so it finds it and then it
moves me to that directory.
So, if I type pwd, I get
/home/pi which is where
I expect it to be.
So, this is another way
to use cd to just move up
one level or down one level
in our directory hierarchy.
Another command, very
commonly used, command is ls.
Ls gives you the contents
of a directory.
So remember, every directory
contain other
directories or files.
If you type ls, it will show
you all the contents
of the directory.
So, we started off,
I type pwd, remember,
I'm in /home/pi.
Then I type ls and notice
it types three things,
it prints out three things:
Desktop, indiecity
and python_games.
Each one of these is a
directory and these are
the three directories that are
inside my current directory,
/home/pi, so that
are under it, right?
So, that's what it prints out.
Now, notice that after
that I type ls-l. Now, the
-l option, there are
a lot of options to each one
of these Linux commands.
The -l option just gives
me lots of detail.
So again, when I type ls-l it,
shows me the same
three directories, Desktop,
indiecity, python_games,
but it gives me on
the same line a lot of
information about each directory.
So, we'll go through these later.
We're not going to go
through every one of these,
but just to show you,
give you an idea what kind
of data is on it.
It'll take the first line with
desktop at it at the end.
So, in the left,
what you see are the permissions,
the access permissions,
r means read,
w means write, x
means the execute.
So, this is describing who
has permissions and
it can be user,
so the owner gets
all the permissions,
read, write and execute.
Then if there's a group
associated with the file which
there isn't in this case and
then other which is just r-x,
so read and execute.
Other means anybody
can access it.
So anyway, we'll talk
about permissions
a little bit more later,
but this is the idea that you
can get information about
every directory or file inside
a directory by typing ls.
In this case, this Pi directory
only has three directories in it,
but it could have
files just as well.
Now, one thing to
note about what you
see on my screen and what you see
by default in a raspberry Pi,
notice the coloring, okay?
See how some things are blue
or this is bright blue.
This coloring actually
has a meaning
and this coloring though,
I don't like to rely
on the coloring.
So, what I mean by
that is raspberry Pi,
the default setup for the shell
is to color in this way.
So, this blue means
that it's a directory.
So, I can just type ls,
it prints out these three names
and by seeing the fact
that they're blue,
I know that they are directories,
where if it was just a file
it would not appear blue.
Now, the coloring is nice,
it's useful, but
I don't trust it.
The reason I don't
trust it is because
I use lots of different machines,
lots of different Linux machines.
Some of them have that coloring
defined by default,
some of them don't.
Some of them use
different colorings, right?
This is one of those
things that you can do
to personalize your setup.
We're not going to talk
about how to do that,
but you can go into
your setup for
your shell RC files and
you can set the coloring
of different things
on the screen,
so it can be nice to
customize it that way,
but I don't like to
trust it just because
different machines
have different setups
and I don't like to
sort of rely on that.
Another way to
tell, in this case,
if each one of these files is
a directory is when
you do that ls-l,
you can see that
there are three rows,
Desktop, indiecity, python_games.
If you look all the way to
the left end of each
one of those rows,
see that letter d?
That d means directory, right?
So, even without the coloring,
I can tell that this is
a directory if I do ls-l
and I see the d there.
But notice that if
I just type ls,
you don't get the detail,
you wouldn't see the d, but
you get the blue, right?
So, it's kind of nice to
have the coloring too.
Couple of more commands,
this is make directory
and remove directory.
So, mkdir is make directory,
rmdir is remove directory,
so they do what they sound like
and mkdir makes a directory,
it creates a new directory where
rmdir removes
a directory, deletes it.
Now, one thing to
note is that rmdir,
when it's removing a directory,
it only works if the
directory is empty,
has no files in it, right?
If you try to rmdir a directory
that has a file on it,
it will not allow you to do
that which is a safety
precaution, right?
But you can see we do an ls,
we can see what's
in the directory,
then I make a new directory,
then you do an ls,
you see it's there then I can
rmdir that directory
and it's gone.
So, that's what it's
for and it's a useful,
sometimes you need to
make directories and
it's good for organizational
purposes, right?
Remember, file systems,
they're for organization,
they help you organize your data.
So, you want to start
a new project and
you're going to have
a bunch of files
involved in that,
make a new directory and put
your stuff in it, right?
It's easy to do and it helps
you with organization later,
so you can find things later.